# Homework 6: Reflecton

- Due on Saturday, September 21 at 11:59pm
- Weight: 8% of total grade

<br>

**Write**: Reflect on your previous work and how you would adjust to include ethics and inequity components. Total length should be a few paragraphs, no more than one page.


Our final lesson was quite important to consider how using data, sql, python and other analytical/ML tools could adversely affect other people or communities. many ethical considerations intertwine with using data. Personally, my education is within the field of health science and epidemiology. I am also employed by the government within the healthcare field. Many of the datasets I work with incorporate elements of personal privacy, protected by several laws within the country such as PHIPA and PIPEDA. As a user of the data, it is my duty to abide by these laws, not only so I do not break the law, but so patients do not need to worry about employees leaking or inappropriately using their healthcare data. I abide by rules to not try and de-anonymize patient data, I do not try to inappropriately link data between identifier datasets, and I ensure I use safeguards to protect the data, by implementing use of VPNs, virtual machines and physical safeguards. I hope to play my part in protecting patient data, so those that are vulnerable according to their data are not disproportionately more affected than those with little health care data. 

From a more social lens, it is also important to consider how existing infrastructure related to data and analytics may also benefit myself in comparison to friends and co-workers. I am a white male within Canada. Majority of the data infrastructure which supports services related to official documentation, banking/finances/insurance, application forms and so on, were originally built for people who share my image and likeness. The worst experience I've encountered related to data inclusivity, is having to use a shortened version of my first name when my full name cannot fit in an identified space. This pales in comparison to some friends I have of different ethnicities with traditional "non-white" names. I've had friends who have been unable to correct enter forms because there is a character within their name that does not exist in the Roman English alphabet. Applications for scholarships and jobs was inherently more difficult, given only electronic forms using the English alphabet were allowed. Understanding and implementing measures to prevent issue like this from occurring is easier said than done, especially with already established, rules, regulations and infrastructure. But being in a digital age where anyone can adjust a limitation with access to a computer makes these inclusivity experiences much easier. As an exmaple, while it may be difficult to determine how many different alphabets need to be included in a written form to account for different ethnicities and characters, its the frame of the approach to this issue that may need to change. Rather, fewer restrictions could be implemented. Instead of limiting written forms to only Roman English letters, allow use of all languages/keyboards, so an individual with a non-English character in their name could easily complete a form like my self. Steps like these which I would consider in my own work, would help reduce the number of people experiencing entry errors in their own form, because their name doesn't match the English alphabet characeters. Allowing a use of all characters would prevent people from being denied an application because the backend machine could not comprehend a non-English character. Simple standards like this may seem small, but implmenting an allowance of these changes could ensure no one feels discriminited against by the restrictions in written forms. 
